welcome to the amma series i am your
host tom bill you and i'm gonna be
taking your questions this is gonna be
magical we're gonna have an amazing time
it is gonna be magically delicious like
some [__] Lucky Charms up in
here alright before we begin might I ask
comment in the feed say hello to
somebody ask a question do whatever it
takes but we got to get this algorithm
to know that you guys are engaged in
this madness so the more comments you
drop in right now at the beginning the
more it helps this that would be amazing
and as always share share share find a
loved one somebody you care deeply about
that you know this content is gonna add
value to their life and share get this
out to them peeps right now as a wee bit
of housekeeping I want to remind
everybody speaking of referring people
and sharing that we have a contest going
right now right this minute refer a
friend to the video that is either
already in the comments or about to be
in the comments on YouTube get people to
subscribe to YouTube and have them put
your name in the comment section there
and that enters you to win every person
that enters puts your name there gives
you another entry into the contest the
winner is going to be flown out here
from wherever you are in the world to
spend a day with me and the amazing the
glorious the talented and dare I say
sexy impact Theory team so come spend
some time with us it's gonna be amazing
this is a worldwide offering no matter
where you are we will fly you out it's
gonna be amazing so let's do the damn
thing alright without further ado we
have a question from tarisha youtube hi
Tom hello right back what type of
workouts do you do daily I'm curious to
know if you think doing certain workouts
make you feel more powerful which by the
way that's why I chose this question to
start with or help you think more
clearly due to the mind-body connection
alright so it is very important a that
we not scroll off this question and be
to recognize that I'm absurdly lazy and
so I'm probably not the right person to
take a lot of specific workout advice
from but if you are a fan of blunt-force
trama which is how I have focused my
time and attention both on diet and in
the gym because I don't find either of
them particularly mentally stimulating
so I put the least amount of effort into
conceptualizing my workouts and all of
that stuff seemingly possible and it
goes like this
I do a push-pull legs split so by that
mean that I mean that I group my muscles
into push and pull and legs so push
muscles are going to be chest triceps
shoulders pull muscles are gonna be
bicep back forearms and I group those
into their separate days and then the
third day is actually legs and abs which
I do together what is that Bruce Wayne
everybody we are joined by the very
clean e McClane II Bruce Wayne today so
what's up he looks like the cross
between a bat and a dog for those that
can't see him which is actually pretty
fascinating given his namesake alright
so that's how I break things down and I
would say that while I don't change my
work up work outs up enough if you're
really going for maximum gains you do
want to change your workouts frequently
so anybody that's really paying
attention to the things that I say over
time will realize I've been saying that
I do a push-pull legs
sequence for quite some time now and
again that just full disclosure goes
back to laziness so yeah that's what I
do the whole notion of doing things to
make you feel more powerful more than
there's a given workout that makes me
feel more powerful this is really like
focusing on the muscle and if you
haven't read Arnold Schwarzenegger
biography it is absolutely fascinating
called Total Recall in that he talked
about something he's been very famous
for which is really trying to get inside
the muscle mentally thinking about the
muscle growing thinking about his biceps
becoming mountains if I remember
correctly with how he described it and
in doing that and getting that mind-body
connection and really thinking about it
and psyching yourself up and getting
aggressive I think that you really
actually do something to accelerate the
growth you certainly by focusing on it
are going to be contracting the muscle
harder which even if you want a purely
scientific explanation to what's going
on
in thinking about the muscle and
thinking about contracting the muscle
fibers in doing that you're going to
maximize your focus attention and thusly
the micro tears that you're doing in the
muscle so that
is I think really fascinating and I
think like I don't often go into woowoo
but I really do think there's something
and when I say whoo-whoo in this context
I mean it we just don't fully understand
about the communication that's happening
both ways between the body and the mind
and for those of you that are familiar
with the vagus nerve I think it's 80% of
the signals that the vagus nerve
transmit are going from the body to the
mind which means that your body is
saying something to the brain we know
that with the gut the level of
communication and signaling is
absolutely astronomical very nuanced so
I'm guessing that part of the reason
that Schwarzenegger had the kind of
success that he had in using that mental
focus and clarity on the muscle is that
you're getting this two-way feedback so
you're sending these very clear signals
to the body and those in return are
serving something back to the mind and
that when it's focused with aggression
really does make you feel more powerful
it's pretty incredible and on those days
where you're really not feeling it in
the gym doing that pushing your
aggression really like feeding into that
into your mind makes the workout way
better and I find that that that feeling
of dominance aggression is something
that will actually echo through the day
it's really really fascinating I'm sort
of freaking myself out as I think about
it right now
it's really fascinating how long that
echoes I don't think it really lasts
more than 24 hours but I'll say that it
pushes a good six hours into my day
total gut instinct but I'm gonna say six
hours when I really get aggressive and
have a great workout that I really
really feel that for hours and hours and
hours afterwards it's kind of a similar
effect to meditation I don't know that
it gets you a full 24 hours but it does
have an echo that goes far beyond the
actual time you're sitting there and
meditating alright next question is from
John are also from YouTube hey Tom any
tips on the best ways to find partners
with complementary skill sets for a new
startup specifically partners that are
willing to work for equity but committed
to working hard and long hours alright
so this is it's really easy to find
people that say all of those things it's
very very hard there I say the work of a
lifetime to find people that actually
live up to that all right as much as I
hate resumes I will say that what
somebody has done historically is a
great
predictor of what they're gonna do in
the future just beware that people lie
on resumes either intentionally or
unintentionally PS so I'll give you an
example of an unintentional lie that I
used to tell which was I used to say on
resumes that I'm very detail-oriented
because I actually didn't understand
what detail-oriented meant which now on
the flip side of that I can't believe
that I didn't in my twenties I didn't
understand what it meant to be
detail-oriented so I used to say yeah
I'm detail-oriented because I thought
that that essentially meant like you
paid attention not understanding that
there are some people for whom like
literal like the most my new detail
their minds are very systematic they go
from one thing to the next to the next
they don't lose sight of the minutiae
and they're able to see things through
very very easily it's like a part of the
way that their mind is constructed my
wife is detail-oriented and sometimes it
weirds me out like how much she gets
lost in the details is really focusing
on the nitty-gritty and my mind just
does not work like that so it actually
was alive because I am NOT
detail-oriented in any way should
perform certainly not by natural
inclination I have to keep lists of
everything just to like meet a modicum
of details so things like that people
may just not be aware of themselves of
what their real patterns aren't hey
chase and I were literally talking about
this and Ray Dalio before we started
rolling how Ray Dalio whole thesis is
most people have no sense of objective
truth about themselves so you have to
seek it from outward looking in so
anyway that's something just to be aware
of as you're looking for a partner but
to give you very specific places to go I
would start online and this is
self-serving to be sure but actually
what I think go to the impact theory
league which is our Facebook group go
there you're gonna find people certainly
that our growth mine
growth mindset 'add know why that feels
so wrong right now but they have a
growth mindset Hey so you know at least
that also you guys are gonna have a
similar lexicon because they're
obviously watching the same kind of
content that you are they're gonna be
holding themselves at least in theory to
the same kind of standard so it's a
great place to start you know that you
share something in common
going to meetups is also a tremendous
good idea even if you meet them in the
league at the end of the day you're
gonna need to meet them in person so I'm
a big believer that social connection
needs to translate to in real-life
connection that's really the magic and
if you just leave it online I don't
think you're ever gonna get all the
benefits also I don't think there's any
substitute for proximity so if it were
me I would never partner with somebody
that I couldn't meet with frequently in
person so I would be looking for
somebody in Los Angeles so I highly
encourage you guys to find people that
are local to you there just really is
momentum that's created when you're
around each other and I get it like the
whole world is moving towards
distributed workforce and all that I
think that is total [__] and I think
that when you're not together
it is a real [__] problem so hey
that's my thing so I would meet them in
meetups online then in real life and
making sure that you guys spend time
together talking value system flirting
before you get married
spending time together working on
something where you can extract yourself
so that it's not like this really messy
you know tied up thing make sure that
you enjoy working together make sure
that you really do have complimentary
skill sets make sure that their skills
that is what they say it is all of that
stuff is very important so finding a way
to do something together that is very
easy to unwind I think is is very good
advice and to that point what was I
going to say I have no idea but to that
point oh no don't worry about contracts
Jesus this is something that drives me
crazy people think that they need these
long lengthy [__] contracts before
they get started like do it on a
handshake and just do something
relatively small but I think the success
of something is conversely related to
the number of pages in your contract if
you can't jot a quick email and say like
here's our agreement and move forward
like yeah that's already problematic so
I can't tell you the number of
relationships that I've started where
we've been together for a year multiple
years all on like hey this is like a
real rough outline of our understanding
and let's just go I don't need to sign
things I've lawyers review it or so but
when you're starting a company obviously
you gonna take that a little more
seriously but I wouldn't let that be the
opening salvo all right question from
Colleen Chad Z this is from Facebook
hello Tom how do I continue to deal with
unhealthy relationships that I'm forced
to deal with losing me a bit there with
my ex and his family B go and there you
just answered it because we have a
daughter together oh okay
so yeah alright this is how I would
attack it like Lisa and I were talking
about on relationship theory and by the
way for anybody interested in anything
to do with relationships whether they
are romantic or otherwise I think
relationship theory has a ton of value
we went into great detail on this
yesterday and I take a very particular
strategy and that particular strategy is
to ask myself one very simple question
what am I trying to get out of this what
is my goal and I don't find that people
start with a goal very often and when if
you don't outline what your goal is and
in this case I'm going to just tell you
what it would be if it were me my goal
with all of this if it has to do with
the daughter is I'm gonna have as little
contact with the unhealthy relationship
as humanly possible all optimized to
protecting my daughter her relationship
her seeing how we interact with each
other and if I can only control my side
of that equation then I'm gonna do
everything to know that children aren't
necessarily listening to what you're
saying but they're always watching how
you are so if you know that they're
gonna be watching even at times where
you're convinced they're not watching
that they're not hearing you I'm gonna
go into every interaction with what
would I want my daughter to take away
from this so I employ a water off a
duck's back strategy where I don't let
things bother me that has been wildly
beneficial to me so remember my goal I
want to make sure that this is every
interaction is optimized for my daughter
so I'm gonna go into this not like hey
does this piss me off not do I feel that
I've been wronged in some way purely
what advice would I give my daughter and
how to deal with this and because I
think that when you're talking family
dynamics harmony is a big part of it
making sure that you're creating a safe
space for your daughter that she's not
constantly seeing conflict so I'm since
I can only control my side I am gonna be
practicing
the emotional equivalent of a
non-violence strategy so I'm not gonna
escalate I'm not gonna meet aggression
with aggression I'm not gonna snipe at
that person I'm never gonna say negative
[__] I'm not going to attack at them or
pick at them because remember this is
her father and so even if he's a bit of
a dick like that she needs to find a way
to have a positive relationship with him
I don't know what it is about humans I
actually haven't spent a lot of time
thinking about this but I am so aware
that it's real for whatever reason when
they are your parent even if they are
psychopaths like you just hunger for a
relationship with them and they will
wildly influence how you think about
members of that gender so how you think
about your mom will impact how you think
about women how you think about your dad
is gonna influence how you think about
men if you're a girl your relation with
your dad is gonna paint how you have
romantic relationships assuming you're
straight I mean it's just it's crazy how
interconnected all of this is so I would
do everything that I could to make sure
that that relationship was harmonious
that I am always de-escalating always
like water not and and I say like water
in the sense that have you ever tried to
push water uphill right so when people
attack me they will oftentimes find it
very frustrating because I don't I don't
rise to that I don't get baited into
that
so you just water off a duck's back so
in that eventually because there's
nowhere to go they're not able to bully
you they're not able to get a rise out
of you I'm certainly not going out of my
way to spend time with them and I'm
always thinking about my goal my goal is
not to feel like a stud my goal is not
to stand up for myself my goal is to
unless of course that I feel I have to
stand up for myself in order to teach my
daughter the lesson that I want to teach
her which there is a very real
possibility that it comes to a point
where somebody's crossing a line I
wouldn't want my daughter to see hey
somebody can just be pushed around so
100% if I have to stand up and tell them
to back off calm down whatever then I'm
going to do that but letting that
escalate into a fight I think is really
dangerous it's interesting I find myself
really wanting to talk about this more
so I can process in my own mind I'm
exactly what I would do I think it's
very very interesting and I would just
sum it up by saying water off a duck's
back what does your goal follow that all
right Oh sadly YouTube live it's not
working properly we scroll off too fast
so I don't know how that
ends so no questions from YouTube today
boo but Facebook is good now are we
saying it's an Internet whoa
okay all right next question
I'm gonna guess is coming from Facebook
sorry Jared did you say something oh man
what a bummer bummer city well for the
limited number of people that did come
from YouTube if there are any welcome
you're among the precious few all right
this question is from miodrag
Mickey Milankovitch come on do like that
was the first try I hope that's close
that felt pretty good
all right what is the number one tip
you've got for someone who is waking the
matrix but struggles to find the right
way and the right thing to do I'm gonna
need some more clarity on that
so without clarification on that
question I will say that doesn't sound
like you have a clear goal it's the
right way part that I don't quite
understand but the right thing to do is
always going to be identified what your
goal is hyper specific work your way
backwards to identified the gap in skill
set between where you are and where
you're trying to get to and then the
right way is whatever way that fits
within your code of ethics to you know
get those skills and then apply them in
the way that gets you to where you want
to go without more clarification that
I'll say that the number one tip is
ultra clear goals in fact man can I just
say that is like my number one tip for
virtually everything have freakishly
clear goals know exactly what you want
in fact when I was saying earlier like
what do I want my daughter to get out of
this what what kind of person do you
want your daughter to be what kind of
lessons do you want to teach her then
when you know okay that's it like for
instance there are people that believe
always turn the other cheek there's
people to believe if you're getting
bullied fight back like you've got it
which of those things do you want to
teach her and then act in accordance so
that's but one example so that's my
number one tip hyper hyper hyper clear
goals
alright this question again from
Facebook water shock Jamie Lee Fred
revealed is desperation the best means
of pushing oneself over the threshold of
fear within I don't know that it's the
best means it is the means that will
show up for you in a very acute
situation so desperation
has been a great boon for me in my life
anger has been a great boon for me in my
life but I never spend more than 20% of
my time in those negative places so I
spend 80% of my time in the beautiful
things and things that I'm grateful for
the things that I'm trying to create in
this world the people I want to help
thinking about them thinking about how
far I've come all of that like 80% of my
time and energy goes into that
connecting with what I really want to do
connecting with the people that I want
to help like all of that which is not a
place of desperation is a place of
abundance it is a place of excitement it
is a place of beauty and wonderment and
awe let's talk about all ah it's
probably the most amazing and powerful
emotion that any human being can
experience will ever experience the
things that literally leave your mouths
gape where you just like I can't believe
I'm experiencing this incredible thing I
rely on that way more as a way to deal
with fear than I do desperation or
anything like that
now when that fails me when what I'm
trying to build fails me when the
exciting things that I'm doing fail me
and they're just not enough at that
moment for whatever reason in a very
acute way very acute and that's what I
want people to understand I would never
[__] wallow in desperation I would
never exist in a state of like [__] I
have to do this oh my god that's that is
a horrific way to spend your time but in
moments of like hey I have got to move
forward right now and I've tried all my
other tactics and they've failed me then
yes I will focus on if I don't [__]
do this XYZ is gonna happen I'm gonna
lose this this isn't gonna happen for me
bad things are gonna come my way all of
that absolutely I will lean on them as a
crutch in that moment all right next
question Josh
Jeffery from Facebook what is the best
way to truly experience gratitude when
you have a goal oriented mindset how do
you balance being thankful for what you
have while continuing to keep the
mindset that you should continue to
strive for more don't scroll off this
all right what is the best way to truly
experience gratitude when you have a
goal oriented mindset well I'll give you
just like raw tactics so first of all I
do this as a part of my met
tation routine I try to experience
gratitude both and like the big things
and in the small things they're not
always tied to my goal it is purely
something to get the neuro chemistry
pumping in the right direction to be in
a good headspace to really feel and
internalize on a visceral emotional
level that sense of like real deep
fulfillment gratitude appreciation for
what you have going on in your life so
like I said I'll pick something big and
I'll pick something small so it might be
something like you know I'm so grateful
for 17 years with my wife somebody that
really understands me that knows my
pettiness knows my like the dark ugly
corners of my mind like they know all of
that and they still love me and they
they're with me on this journey and you
know she picks me up and brushes me off
when I'm down I mean it's just like buta
I'm literally slipping into the mindset
right now like I am so grateful for that
[__] woman and by the way that's how
easily it happens like you start and
this is exactly what I'm going through
my head these are the exact words that
I'm thinking in my mind I don't say them
out loud but I'm thinking them in my
mind which then creates this
neurochemical cascade and you find
yourself actually experiencing the
emotions of that gratitude then I will
pick something small let's say take my
dog bonsai man when he gets a haircut
there's some his fur feels like velvet
there it is I love to [__] Pat that
dog just don't know when his hair is
freshly cut super small super stupid but
I'm actually grateful for it and it's
amazing so I might think of something
small like that I might think of like
whoa on a warm day like that cool breeze
is just amazing or air conditioning air
conditioning is amazing let's all take a
second to just be appreciative of air
conditioning that again literally as I'm
talking about this I'm actually feeling
the gratitude for these things so it
works just like that all right
how do you balance being thankful for
what you have while continuing the
mindset that you should continue to
strive for more okay so I'm in that zone
right I'm feeling that gratitude I'm
actually feeling it like it's inside of
me I want to rock that for whatever
period of time I'm focusing on the
gratitude doesn't have to be a long time
for me it's usually only a few minutes
and then after I get that going and I
mean
look I have a whole morning routine I'm
not gonna go into that now but then once
I get back to my important things list
which is the list of things that are
most important things I could be doing
to move the company forward then it's
like I slip back into first and foremost
the 80% of my time focus on the
excitement about what we're trying to
create which I really am [__] excited
about just out last night with a guy
named dougie dougie is amazing and we
were just talking about like the studio
that we're trying to build and all of
that and was so much fun to just talk
about and dream about what we're
building and to think about it where
this goes and like to see it reflected
back and to see his excitement it was
just really really [__] cool so those
are because I'm so excited about it I've
got that energy it's pulling me through
and this is somewhere that I think a lot
of people get lost is they don't spend
any effort making sure that the thing
that they're doing with their life is
actually something that generates
excitement it builds excitement it gives
to them more than it takes now it
doesn't mean I'm not [__] exhausted
at the end of my days I am really tired
but I am having a ball I'm having a ball
it's fun I believe in what I'm doing I'm
excited by what I'm doing and so that's
where you should be spending the vast
majority of your times but that's all
stuff about striving to do more to be
more I'm excited to acquire the skills
I'm excited to push myself it isn't a
dark and dingy place like I'm
legitimately amped up to do it and
that's what I want people to understand
like I'm the amount of hours that I work
the hard core way that I'm driven the
overwhelming majority of that energy
comes from a place of excitement it
comes from a place of being enthusiastic
about what I'm doing there is 20% it's
the dark side I [__] leverage it it
is a real thing for me and it helps me
in those acute moments win for whatever
reason the excitement just isn't enough
at that moment then I will think about
the people who wish me ill then I will
think about the things that are dragging
me down then I will focus on the
inadequacies in my life and that I
demand that I get better at those things
100% but it's an 80/20 split you've got
to learn balance that split you've got
to put something that you give a [__]
about at the centre of your life that is
so-so
so important all right YouTube
notifications just went out the lovely
YouTube audiences back welcome back guys
good to have you all right question from
Julie de Alonso from Facebook I know you
use movies to get yourself into the
proper mindset what movie would you or
your wife recommend specifically for
women I feel I'm the wrong person to
answer this question and my wife is
working somewhere and is nowhere in
eyeline so I don't know what movie she
would recommend what movie would I
recommend for women I'm just gonna say
the matrix is good for everybody
that's a crutch a total cop-out but
we'll have to get you a better answer
from Lisa all right question from shear
aaaggghhh argh that may be one of the
coolest names of all time I want to know
if that's a real name or not is on
Facebook so I guess we have a shot my
question is how to embrace uncertainty
what we want to do in the future is all
our imagination question mark how to
truly believe that I can make it happen
embrace that I will figure out a way
even if I mess up oh this is awesome
okay so this is like the the question
that people need to answer affirmatively
right now and that is you need so humans
lead with belief have the arrogance of
belief as I say but the belief is not
that you are already capable it's not
that you will be able to do this and not
mess up it is only the only thing you
have to believe in lean close hear my
words the only thing you have to believe
in right now is that humans are capable
of learning that humans for whatever
reason nature has chosen to not endow us
with a whole bunch of like
pre-programmed things so for instance a
baby horse a full I believe is how you
say that when they're born they can
already walk literally boom they come
out and they're walking and all as well
because that's all hardwired into them
but a horse is a horse is a horse and
they're gonna stay a horse and that's
that and you're never gonna find a horse
reading Chaucer just not gonna happen
so that's all those decisions are
pre-wired humans on the other hand come
they cannot take care of themselves
they're a lump of flesh they basically
know how to suckle and that's sort of
the extent of it
but now humans have the ability to go in
all these crazy different directions and
they can learn to become an
astrophysicist they can learn to become
a carpenter a doctor an astronaut like
the number of directions that humans can
go in is crazy
the amount of what was once known as
junk DNA we now know as epigenetic
signaling the way that we can respond in
all these different directions to our
environment to the things we choose to
focus our energies on is truly unique to
humans is just absolutely astonishing so
understanding that that's baked into the
human animal is the ability to learn and
go in any direction so once you realize
that humans are adaptation machines that
we can learn anything now it's like okay
whatever you want to do you can do it as
long as you're willing to pay that price
I'm not saying that it's not gonna be
hard it is gonna be very very hard I'm
just saying that it is doable and that
you will receive a return on investment
in your energies and that's what people
need to know and believe to the core of
their being that my time in this
direction will be rewarded now here's
where people [__] themselves up there is
this [__] debate about whether or
not it is hey am i pre-programmed I'm
good at math and so that's it and I
should go do things that are math or I'm
good at verbal and I should go do things
that are verbal I'm naturally gifted as
an athlete so I should go be an athlete
look I'm not saying people don't get
early wins people get early wins and if
you happen to love the thing you're
getting early wins and that's awesome
man and you will find it just a little
bit easier you've got a head wind or a
tail wind I guess a tail would you have
a tail wind and so that yeah love that
but if they're the thing that gives you
the most energy in life is something
that you have no natural inclinations
fourth and goal learn that when I say
that I have zero zero natural ability as
an entrepreneur I mean zero
[__] I had to learn everything
from not being lazy to problem solving
to overcoming my paralyzing fear to look
at world like a puzzle dealing with
anxiety
literally it it was comical as I was
going down my journey in the beginning
as an entrepreneur to figure this [__]
out
it's ridiculous and then I meet people
who are like ripping flowers out of
people's front yards and selling them
back to them like when I say that that
was not me I had a paper route and I was
so chicken to go up to people's doors
that I actually only got half the money
that I could have gotten for the same
paper route the same amount of effort
but because I was so afraid to go knock
on people's doors and ask to collect the
money that was do that for like two
years I did a paper out for half the
money okay that's how [__] of an
entrepreneur I was when I started so you
can learn this stuff now my goals
demanded that I learn entrepreneurship
so I [__] learned it so that's what I
want people to understand what is your
goal work backwards from there if it
lines up with what you're naturally good
at that's amazing and congratulations
but they're gonna be times where it
doesn't line up and you've just got a
either change your [__] goal or
recognize that I'm gonna have to figure
these things out and because I'm an
adaptation machine as a human being I
can do all of that alright so that's how
you do that one there was more to that
chases decided you don't get an answer
so the next question is from Josh L
future is from YouTube hey Tom I have my
first meeting with a potential client in
a few hours with that being said I am
nervous
full fully understand that and I'm
experiencing fear of succeeding whoa is
that really possible that you a are
afraid of it but are aware that's really
really interesting we'll go into that in
a second are there any tips that you
have to overcome it okay so let's get
super tactical number do not scroll off
this one we're gonna get super tactical
and then we're gonna talk about this
whole thing about fearing succeeding
okay so the tactical is yes you're in
your you're already in it sounds like
the sympathetic nervous system and it's
going to ratchet the [__] up so you need
to practice getting out of the
sympathetic nervous system into the
parasympathetic nervous system they
exist in what's called a negative
feedback loop now I think that's a total
misnomer all it means is that it's a
seesaw when you're in the sympathetic
nervous
them you can't be in the parasympathetic
nervous system when you're in the
parasympathetic nervous system you can't
be in the sympathetic nervous system by
the way full disclosure that there's
actually a slight slight tweak on that
the doctors assure me is true and there
is some way but like the average human
is not going to be in both at the same
time so we're just gonna talk to it as a
seesaw so one is gonna be higher or the
other so meditate that's gonna be how
you're gonna get out of the sympathetic
nervous system and just notice fight or
flight into the parasympathetic nervous
system which is known as rest and digest
okay so it's going to calm your heart
rate it's gonna slow your breathing all
the things that are the symptoms of
anxiety and this is the one that really
[__] people up the blood is actually
leaving your prefrontal cortex which is
your the seat of higher cognition the
neocortex so you want to get the blood
back there you want to calm down one of
the way so meditate that's first two is
for me always to remind myself there's
no such thing as performance there is
only practice this will be but one of
many many many many many many many
opportunities that are going to come
your way we'll play chase
so don't live in like a scarcity mindset
this this [__] like I love there's a
quote from my boy Jim Carrey and he said
until someone tells you tonight is your
make-or-break night there's someone here
watching you tonight man if you mess
this up your careers over he said until
you [__] that up five times you haven't
even started so that's just a way of
saying people are gonna tell you that
this is some like rare opportunity some
make-or-break moment it's not if you
keep putting yourself in a situation
where you're at risk of something
extraordinary happening which is not
easy and look you wanna take advantage
and you for sure like want to really go
in with all of your might having taken
it seriously and try your best to
absolutely crush it but just remind
yourself now this is practice and I'm
gonna try to like play to the best of my
ability in this practice moment but if I
[__] it up I'm not gonna panic and in
that I find that it lowers my anxiety
levels that I'm now I've got less
pressure on myself to perform even
though I'm taking it very very seriously
even though I'm coming in insanely
prepared that I am lowering to the best
of my ability that sense that like oh
god like if this doesn't happen right
now it's never gonna come back
so that's been massive massive for me
okay now to the very interesting
experiencing fear of succeeding and
being self-aware so that's insanity and
we're going to stop doing that
immediately we're not gonna put any time
and energy into that and the only reason
I can think why somebody would actually
fear failure fear of succeeding excuse
me is because they think that when they
get success somehow that that's a more
terrifying drop or they they think that
there are fraud and that if they get
success that it's not earned and so now
it's gonna be this super really [__]
tenuous thing so that all comes back to
look the only thing you need to believe
is that you can learn so if you hae
stumble into success and oh my god I
didn't deserve this so what like you're
there make the best of that opportunity
if tomorrow you're down again who cares
you can build back up you can take
advantage of the opportunities you can
learn from both the success and the
failure always moving in the direction
that you want based on what your goals
are if you're afraid of succeeding
because you're you actually don't want
that goal then say hey I picked the
wrong goal I'm gonna change my goal
whatever but being willing to play at
the highest level understanding that you
are worthy of success and maybe that's
part of it as well you don't feel that
you're worthy and oftentimes I'm not
saying this is you maybe this is you to
a tee if it's not you it certainly is
hundreds of millions if not billions of
people that something happened to them
in childhood or development or [__]
yesterday that for whatever reason
strips them of their belief in
themselves the belief in their worth and
whether that's abuse as a child whether
that's an abusive relationship whether
that's in their mind some sort of moral
failing because they have a negative
relationship with food drugs alcohol
whatever they're obese like all of that
self judgemental [__] like literally it
doesn't serve you do and believe that
which moves you towards your goals
period so beating yourself up over that
kind of stuff is it is so
counterproductive remember I would do it
if it moved me towards my goals a
hundred percent it's not going to so let
go of let go of all of that stuff
because it isn't productive I'm not even
asking you to believe that you are a
worthy person because that is a whole
[__]
like set up for failure because now
we're dealing with a really deep
subconscious part of yourself I'm just
saying accept the reality that it
doesn't serve you it does not serve you
to think that you're not worthy it does
not serve you to think that you're a bad
person for all of the reasons that I
just listed any whole slew of [__] I'm
sure that I didn't even touch on and the
crazy thing is guys JC with me
so billions of people feel that way now
it's very easy for us from the outside
to say oh that doesn't make sense for
them and yet internalized it for us
there's no logic to that doesn't make
any sense because it doesn't make sense
immediately drop it and hopefully over
time you will see that it's just not
true but remember right now I don't even
need you to believe that you're worthy I
just need you to believe that focusing
on the fact that you're not worthy is
totally useless
so don't focus there focus your energies
on what you can learn go out do your
best it's practice it's never
performance yeah make it this all right
and then get out of the sympathetic
nervous system okay that was a fun one
for me Craig Marsh this is from YouTube
hi Tom how do you deal with being ill oh
I'm a dangerous person to ask this
question to but I think I'm the right
person we'll get to that in a second
does your goal change to getting better
sooner or keep working while not at your
peak
all right [__] here's where we
slip into the Goggins sets so very much
I will grind myself into the dirt to
prove something to myself now I do try
to balance it I try to get a ton of
sleep I think that's very important I
don't I try not to put myself around
people though admittedly if we have an
episode I'm [__] showing up for that
episode barring like what are those the
tubes they put down your throat like
marring needing to be respirate 'add I'm
showing up for an episode there's just
no two ways that is my identity so I do
apologize to the team in advance for
that when i sanitized before I come down
though I don't shake people's hands but
dude that right there I'm looking at it
right now is the
Jorden flu game painting that I have
hanging any place of honor and my house
that is my obsession not letting
anything slow you down or stop you so I
I don't understand and I accept I fully
accept this is not where most people are
I get that I just don't understand it it
is a chance for you to prove something
so cool and extraordinary to yourself
that you're capable of pushing through
now part of this is because I so believe
in what I'm doing
I'm so excited by what I'm building I'm
so eager to become a better version of
myself and I get so much joy and
pleasure out of being the kind of person
that shows up even when they're sick
like that brings me an immeasurable
amount of pride and I think that
everybody needs pride and we can have
that argument I will win but everybody
needs pride and this is something that
gives me a tremendous amount of pride so
yes and does it piss my wife off yes
because she wants to see me get healthy
as soon as possible and I do want to say
I get a metric shit-ton of sleep when
I'm sick okay Oh clear I eat the way
you're supposed to eat when you're sick
very healthy very clean all of that
because I hate being sick so I want to
minimize the amount of time but if I
have something to do and those two
things come in conflict and it's either
show up and be Who I am or get better
sooner [__] I am gonna do what I
need to do to be the person that I want
to be even if that means an extra week
of being sick I don't care so there it
is dangerous to ask me that question but
I have very clear feelings I think we
all agree on that very clear feelings
about that all right Raymond : from
YouTube how did you become comfortable
behind a camera and find your voice do
you mean in front of the camera behind
the camera was easy because you're
essentially invisible and hiding in
front of the camera I resisted for a
very long time
and how did I do that can we assume just
one person right
okay so I'll answer the question you
didn't ask assuming that this way meant
how did I do this let me really think
about that
it wasn't until it became clear that to
achieve my goals I needed to step out
front that I sucked it up and dealt with
my anxiety which was crushing to be in
front of the camera I was in a near
state of panic the first episode that we
filmed yeah that wasn't a lot of fun so
I in fact I've said this before but I so
back when periscope first came out and I
would do lives all by myself and like
seven people would show up I would get
such tremendous anxiety over that that I
would have to do meditation and
breathing exercises and this is funny I
would have to try to surprise myself
meaning that I wouldn't I wouldn't
guarantee that I was gonna go live I
wouldn't set a time and I remember even
with impact Theory when we finally said
like there was gonna be a set time that
we were gonna go live every like what I
forget the first day that we went live
and that it was like at 10:00 and I knew
ahead of time that was at 10:00 I was
like whoa my god like this is really
like provokes anxiety in me so
remembering there's no performance
there's only practice inviting you guys
into that world not trying to be cool
always like being willing to admit the
truth of my experience like talking
about my anxiety all of that actually
helped lower my anxiety first of all and
then having the arrogance of belief the
arrogance of belief boys and girls that
I had something to say that I had
[__] killed myself over the last 15
years to learn entrepreneurship being
like the exact opposite of that like
having to claw my way and figure it all
out
yeah like eventually I just had to say
to serve the people that I want to serve
to build the audience that I want to
build to build the studio that I want to
build all of this mandates that I
believe that I have something to say and
then as you believe you have something
to say and you start getting feedback
and you see that you're actually helping
people it only further like boasts
boosts your confidence and then you go
at it more and
harder and anybody that goes back and
watches my earlier content I don't have
the bravado and the conviction that I
have now because as you do it and you
reflect on your life and you see what
you've done and I see like literally and
this is one of my favorite quotes and
it's so so I'm glad 50 cent is building
himself back up because this rang hollow
for a little while there well he really
struggled but he had this great quote in
one of his songs and he said I came in
the game humble can't nobody tell me
[__] now and I love that like there's
there's nothing you can tell me about
losing fat about building a business
about building a social following
there's nothing you can tell me because
I've done it so all I ask you to believe
is that it worked once it at least works
for me
so because I have that because I have
the confidence that comes from
competence yeah it's that is huge so if
you really want to find your voice go
get good at something all right question
from Charles row on Facebook my question
is about bright lines did you start off
with a big list or have you added to
them over time what makes you decide to
make something a bright line all right
so I did not start off with a big list
it started very small and almost
entirely around food food first then
working out actually is that true yeah
there was a lot of coinciding with the
the diet and working out and those were
my first bright lines and they worked so
well that it began to spill over into
other areas of my life but yeah that's
how it started and then how do I decide
to make something a bright line and by
the way for those that don't know what a
bright line is it's like hard and fast
rules like there are certain things that
I eat during the day in certain
quantities and that is it I don't
deviate from that whatsoever so that is
the real juice so I find for me that
abstaining is very easy and having one
Dorito is impossible so I just don't
[__] with Doritos that's very easy I can
even have them in the house by the way I
can
watch people eat them I could they could
bake fresh cookies in fact when I'm
fasting people eating stuff that smells
delicious is awesome I love that so much
because the arrogance that it fills me
with because I know that I have a bright
line and I will not eat those things
under any circumstance there's nothing
you could do to make me give in you
could tempt me all you want and I
approve into myself over 15 years that I
will not give in to that temptation it
is a really good feeling as choco
willing says discipline equals freedom
when you have those bright lines you
know that you're not gonna spill over
and if you prove that to yourself time
and time again it's really really
amazing
okay so deciding what to make a bright
line I'm really really cautious about
that because I know that I'm gonna go to
the ends of the earth it's not really
the ends of the ends of the earth I'm
gonna go to the enth degree I'm just
combining those to make sure that I
adhere to that bright line so I am very
very careful about what promises I make
myself about what bright lines I create
because I don't want to lose credibility
with myself so it's got to be something
I really care about all right next
question comes from purujit Chowdhury
I Shou to read definitely the last name
is there's another person I don't
remember the name for it but Perry jet
I'm really [__] this one up anyway
thank you yay here's the question hello
Tom how would you suggest for time
distribution among focusing on working
up tasks for a goal we start that over
how would you suggest for time
distribution among focusing on working
up tasks for a goal know what that means
soaking in information research mentor
training systematic learning socializing
so basically all the different things
that are going to help me get there okay
so and then one quick parenthetical here
I have the strange fear of missing out
an important information while working
on a task at hand which is the main
reason for lacking focus this okay
that's that's really helpful
clarification so here's the key picking
a direction and going after it is is the
juice it is the most important thing
going into a room with a thousand doors
closing nine hundred ninety nine of them
that is how you make
now here's like a mildly controversial
thing I cannot believe this is [__]
controversial I'm gonna say it anyway
and hopefully whine some of you people
up because hopefully you will see on the
other side of this is a real
breakthrough I would rather run a
thousand miles an hour in the wrong
direction then stand still let me say
that again
I would rather run a thousand miles an
hour in the wrong direction then stand
still now I'm gonna make every [__]
attempt to make sure that I'm going in
the right direction but the whole point
in saying that is I'm never going to be
paralyzed by the fact that I may be
doing the wrong thing to stop me from
doing something so pick one and go with
it whatever it is pride yourself in the
ability to pick and decide so do a
breakdown to the best of your knowledge
and ability of the things you should be
doing and then execute on them in the
order that you put them in do not be
paralyzed by [__] number three be number
one who the [__] cares go do something
then in doing it if you realize oh I'm
actually getting more out of number
three great move it up into position
number one but you won't know that until
you engage you won't know if you're
running in the wrong direction until
you're running that's what drives me
crazy about people that push back on
that one
you can already feel the YouTube
comments so first of all I want to
clarify I'm not saying this is people
always misquote me I've never said run a
thousand miles in the wrong direction
but even that would be a fine outcome I
say run a thousand miles an hour meaning
go all-out Full Tilt and end up
realizing later through engaging with it
through hitting top speed oh [__] this
is the wrong direction then I will pivot
into me that immediately start going in
the right direction you don't know until
you engage with it all right next
question from Jason wild Facebook we
have someone from Tacoma fell it's come
a native here what is up have you ever
caved in when you thought you were when
you thought that you were going to fail
when the pressure mounts and I think
that I might fail I sometimes decide
that failure in a failure is inevitable
and just rip off the band-aid that's a
really bad strategy how do I go about
destroying the self sabotaging behavior
at least you know that it
self-sabotaging to me this is all about
my understanding of what the the real
nature of failure so when you fail in
something it's so instructive but you
have to fail because you really gave it
your all and you really tried now that
doesn't mean if I realize ok this path
isn't gonna work I don't need to like
carry it all the way out and then I get
to the ultimate failure before I pivot
like if I'm doing and I'm like this
isn't where even like something that
isn't working as well as I thought I'll
pivot and change direction so but like
intentionally imploding your efforts and
so I'll liken this to video games
hopefully you play if I'm playing in
fact here's a great example so let's say
that you get into the match and it's 4v4
which happens to be the game that I play
and you're losing I'll play all out
every round trying to learn something
trying to test the different strategy to
see if I can get a little bit better in
that match even though I know this sort
of mathematically the odds are way
stacked against me other people that I
play with you can literally just leave
they'll you know bounce out of the game
before the end of the match I think wow
that's crazy but on the other hand if
it's let's say we load into the game and
internet connection for two of the
people drops and so now it's to vie for
that's to me a waste of time I'm not yet
in a position where I'm trying to get
good at being two people against four
people my skill set just isn't there so
that seems like a waste of time so I
will bounce out of that and start any
one so I'm not leaving because the
emotion of losing sucks
I would only leave if I feel like the
skill set that I'm trying to test can't
now be tested in that situation so it's
a fundamental different way about how I
think about practice versus performance
and what the point of failure is and
then also I just get something out of
sticking with things I prove something
to myself so yeah align your value
system and it'll change your behaviors
so that's my advice there okay question
from scott-padget youtube i am just
starting to build a website business
that will make money off of advertising
for distilleries should i invest money
into it off the bat or start off with
more simple website that is free
so that really comes down to how much
capital do you have of your disposal how
much capital can you afford to lose and
how much would capital accelerate your
learning curve so it's usually a good
idea to do as much as you can for free
assuming that it's not causing you too
much of a slowdown inevitably it's going
to slow you down but if you're still
able to generate a lot of momentum and
really get something going and prove out
the model and and learn without
investing capital way way better so that
you can as you learn more you can invest
that capital more intelligently but I'm
also not afraid like if I realize
throwing a hundred bucks is something or
200 bucks is something that's really
going to give me accelerated knowledge I
would do that in a heartbeat
so yeah it really comes down to you if
you only have two hundred dollars in
capital then using that just to
accelerate you is probably a really
terrible idea and you should just do
everything for free as much as possible
learn as much as you can get to the
point where you don't feel there's
anything to learn until you invest some
capital and then invest that then so it
would be my advice all right question
from Erin Murray Cramer this from
YouTube how do I break the belief I was
given as a child that I'm only
successful if I'm behind a desk in an
scrolling please in an office that
provides benefits okay I feel that I'm
blocked from following my dreams what
should I do to act on it okay
well the fact that you're asking the
question shows you have a pretty high
degree of self-awareness I think that's
really important so now that you know
that now it comes down to how do you
actually make sure that you're gonna be
able to make ends meet I think that is
important and I'm not one of those guys
it's like look I would burn the ships if
I needed to if I felt that was the thing
that my goals demanded but if my goals
don't demand it then I'm not gonna burn
the ship so I would keep your job where
you have benefits and I would start
building something on the side and I
would do the side hustle as long as
humanly possible keeping my benefits
until that company was really taking off
that it was able to support some amount
of my income in fact I was just at
the New York City Comic Con and I met a
comic-book writer and artist there Matt
shoutout to TJ sterling for anybody
who's interested Rey comics I believe
it's how you say it ra e comics check
him out super nice guy I haven't read
the comics yet full disclosure but
really really interesting guy and I
asked him like where do you make your
money and he said he makes half of it on
touring around to the comic book
conventions and the other half with just
a normal 95 job so I think that's a
winning strategy so try to build
whatever you're building on the side
without you know just setting your life
ablaze I don't think there's any reason
to do that okay question from Sofia
muharram this is from YouTube thank you
so much Tom for all the great content
absolutely my pleasure
can you define extreme ownership
absolutely what would be considered
extreme and would that differ from
wanting to be in full control of your
services business it is very different
than wanting to be in full control of
your services business that that's
really like control freaky territory
which is not extreme ownership so
extreme ownership one I would say read
the book by jakka willing by the same
name it is an incredible and
transformative book but I will say I'll
tell you a story how about that and this
is my example of extreme ownership my
wife is British as longtime followers
well no and let's say that my wife were
back in London visiting her family she's
sleeping in the bedroom that she grew up
in the doors locked the alarm is on she
is safe and sound her mom is right down
the hallway at that moment a meteorite
comes screaming through the atmosphere
smashes into her bedroom and kills her
whose fault is that
now without trying to guess what you
think I'll say and if you know me you
already know my answer but if you don't
most people will say that it's fate it's
nobody's fault divine providence force
Monsieur like it just dumb bad luck I on
the other hand will say it's entirely my
fault and let me tell you why right now
there is an organisation that track
would are called near-earth objects
they're trying to figure out what they
should do if one of those is on a
collision course with earth and whether
that's a laser or planted nuclear
explosion
ever that's going to be to knock that
thing off a collision course with earth
they're trying to figure that out now I
know they exist I know where they are
I've actually had someone from the
organization reach out to me cuz I've
told this story so many times and I've
still never sent them a dime of my money
I've never sent them an email with ideas
I've never given them a phone call to
give them encouraging words now the
reason I haven't done any of that is I
think the odds of my wife being killed
by a meteorite are vanishingly slim but
if it does happen I'm not going to waste
my time fooling myself that there wasn't
something I could have done I've chosen
not to do it that is extreme ownership
when even something as ridiculous as
saying I could have done something about
a meteorite killing my wife if I take
ownership of that you can imagine I take
ownership of everything leading up to
that so I'm not trying to point a finger
at other people and look at their
failings I'm trying to ask myself what
could I have done differently and I do
that because I want to remain in control
not because I want to feel badly about
myself in fact it doesn't make me feel
badly about myself I make choices those
choices have consequences I could always
make a different choice and get a
different outcome and I want to be
reminded of that at all times so that's
why I take extreme ownership now in a
business setting I'm always asking dual
questions if something somewhere falls
down I'm saying what could I have done
differently to make sure that this
didn't happen my answer is almost never
do it myself because you've gotta know
leverage if you can't delegate things to
other people if you don't have teammates
that are playing at the absolute height
of their potential if they're not
showing up every day trying to get
better I'm looking only for lynchpin
employees a Lynch pin and poise which
reminds me by the way I am creating a
lexicon
alexxa content on a daily basis I just
did a 90 second segment about being a
lynchpin employee if you have the Alexa
dot whatever I literally woke Alex up
this is amazing so if you have then you
you should be adding me add me to your
flash briefing I'm really putting energy
into making that great it's a huge
investment that I'm putting into voice
we've got a secret project that we're
working on don't tell anybody it's gonna
be amazing around that that technology
but it's a slightly
from spin I'm really excited about
anyway
so being a linchpin employee I want
people that are really all in that are
doing their best so I expect them to
crush it they're not always going to
sometimes they're gonna fall flat on
their face and I'm going to tell them
you fell on your [__] face and here's
why and what I think you could have done
differently and I'm going to hold them
to a standard and if the problems that
have arisen have arisen out of them not
pushing themselves now I really have a
problem I'm really gonna hold them to a
standard let them know what's expected
of them push them to exist at that level
I'm sure that sometimes it gets really
frustrating to be around me because I am
holding people to a very high standard
and I will never lacks my standards on
that those are the kinds of people that
I want to be around but I'm also asking
myself what I could have done
differently how could I create a better
environment how could I been more clear
how could I've set them up for success
so that's all very important all right
one last question it's gonna have to be
short this from Michelle King Facebook
what happens when you make a mistake how
do you rebound this comes down to how
you view mistakes so first of all I
think it is the nature of being a human
I think let's just ballpark it you're
going to 90% of the decisions you make
are gonna be mistakes 10% are gonna not
be mistakes so knowing and and that is
true of anyone trying to create momentum
you could obviously play it way safer so
I'm just not afraid of making mistakes
I'm always trying to take my best swing
to move really really fast to play at a
really big scale and by the way I am
realizing more and more those two things
on my [__] superpower dude I'm
willing to believe that I can pull off
crazy stupid [__] that I have no idea
how I'm going to do it and I keep just
pushing myself forward so in that I need
to accept I'm gonna make a lot of
mistakes in doing that but I will be
able to bounce back from those because
I'm gonna learn from each and every one
I'm not gonna be paralyzed I'm not gonna
feel stupid I'm not gonna let it teach
me the lesson that I should take less
risks I'm just going to try to learn
from each of those so that I can make my
10% of getting it right are just more
and more powerful every time all right
that brings us to the end
boys and girls thank you so much for
joining me this is as always a lot of
fun
for those of you that are paying
attention to my vocal woes I went to see
another doctor yesterday and I can feel
at the end of this live that I need to
go see the vocal coach so that that
they're telling me to see so I can
figure out how to speak with all the
enthusiasm and passion and not all of
the strain so there we have it thank you
for joining me I love doing these these
are amazing you guys are my everything
except my wife admittedly my wife's more
important to me than you but hey
position number three goes wife team and
then this beautiful community I love you
guys thank you so much for showing up
this is absolutely incredible your
questions are awesome thank you thank
you thank you and for all the feedback
that you leave everywhere I read it all
it is amazing I am so grateful I try to
reply as much as I can but I get really
close to reading it all so thank you
thank you thank you keep it coming in
much much much obliged if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe yourself if
you're right now on Facebook and you
haven't subscribed YouTube please go do
that getting our YouTube numbers up is
how we're able to get more and more
guests on the show that would just be
absolutely incredibly valuable to us so
thank you guys and until next time be
legendary my friends
take care
[Music]
[Applause]